Let's consider the task
of text summarization,
where you use the model to generate
a short piece of text that captures
the most important points
in a longer article.
Your goal is to use fine-tuning to
improve the model's ability to summarize,
by showing it examples of
human generated summaries.
In 2020, researchers at OpenAI published a
paper that explored the use of fine-tuning
with human feedback to train a model to
write short summaries of text articles.
Here you can see that a model
fine-tuned on human feedback produced
better responses than a pretrained model,
an instruct fine-tuned model, and
even the reference human baseline.
A popular technique to finetune large
language models with human feedback is
called reinforcement learning from
human feedback, or RLHF for short.
As the name suggests, RLHF uses
reinforcement learning, or RL for
short, to finetune the LLM
with human feedback data,
resulting in a model that is better
aligned with human preferences.
You can use RLHF to make sure that
your model produces outputs that
maximize usefulness and
relevance to the input prompt.
Perhaps most importantly, RLHF can
help minimize the potential for harm.
You can train your model to give caveats
that acknowledge their limitations and
to avoid toxic language and topics.
One potentially exciting application of
RLHF is the personalizations of LLMs,
where models learn the preferences
of each individual user through
a continuous feedback process.
This could lead to exciting new
technologies like individualized learning
plans or personalized AI assistants.
But in order to understand how these
future applications might be made
possible, let's start by taking
a closer look at how RLHF works.
In case you aren't familiar
with reinforcement learning,
here's a high level overview of
the most important concepts.
Reinforcement learning is a type of
machine learning in which an agent learns
to make decisions related to a specific
goal by taking actions in an environment,
with the objective of maximizing
some notion of a cumulative reward.
In this framework, the agent continually
learns from its experiences by
taking actions, observing the resulting
changes in the environment, and
receiving rewards or penalties,
based on the outcomes of its actions.
By iterating through this process, the
agent gradually refines its strategy or
policy to make better decisions and
increase its chances of success.
A useful example to illustrate these ideas
is training a model to play Tic-Tac-Toe.
Let's take a look.
In this example, the agent is a model or
policy acting as a Tic-Tac-Toe player.
Its objective is to win the game.
The environment is the three
by three game board, and
the state at any moment,
is the current configuration of the board.
The action space comprises all
the possible positions a player can
choose based on the current board state.
The agent makes decisions by following
a strategy known as the RL policy.
Now, as the agent takes actions,
it collects rewards based on the actions'
effectiveness in
progressing towards a win.
The goal of reinforcement learning is for
the agent to learn the optimal policy for
a given environment that
maximizes their rewards.
This learning process is iterative and
involves trial and error.
Initially, the agent takes a random
action which leads to a new state.
From this state,
the agent proceeds to explore subsequent
states through further actions.
The series of actions and
corresponding states form a playout,
often called a rollout.
As the agent accumulates experience,
it gradually uncovers actions that yield
the highest long-term rewards,
ultimately leading to success in the game.
Now let's take a look at how
the Tic-Tac-Toe example can be extended
to the case of fine-tuning large
language models with RLHF.
In this case, the agent's policy
that guides the actions is the LLM,
and its objective is to generate
text that is perceived as being
aligned with the human preferences.
This could mean that the text is, for
example, helpful, accurate, and non-toxic.
The environment is the context
window of the model,
the space in which text can
be entered via a prompt.
The state that the model considers before
taking an action is the current context.
That means any text currently
contained in the context window.
The action here is the act
of generating text.
This could be a single word,
a sentence, or a longer form text,
depending on the task
specified by the user.
The action space is the token vocabulary,
meaning all the possible tokens
that the model can choose from
to generate the completion.
How an LLM decides to generate the next
token in a sequence, depends on
the statistical representation of language
that it learned during its training.
At any given moment, the action that
the model will take, meaning which
token it will choose next, depends on
the prompt text in the context and
the probability distribution
over the vocabulary space.
The reward is assigned based on how
closely the completions align with human
preferences.
Given the variation in human
responses to language,
determining the reward is more complicated
than in the Tic-Tac-Toe example.
One way you can do this is
to have a human evaluate
all of the completions of the model
against some alignment metric,
such as determining whether the generated
text is toxic or non-toxic.
This feedback can be represented as
a scalar value, either a zero or a one.
The LLM weights are then updated
iteratively to maximize the reward
obtained from the human classifier,
enabling the model to generate
non-toxic completions.
However, obtaining human feedback
can be time consuming and expensive.
As a practical and scalable alternative,
you can use an additional model,
known as the reward model,
to classify the outputs of the LLM and
evaluate the degree of alignment
with human preferences.
You'll start with a smaller number of
human examples to train the secondary
model by your traditional
supervised learning methods.
Once trained, you'll use the reward model
to assess the output of the LLM and
assign a reward value, which in turn gets
used to update the weights off the LLM and
train a new human aligned version.
Exactly how the weights get updated as
the model completions are assessed,
depends on the algorithm
used to optimize the policy.
You'll explore these issues
in more depth shortly.
Lastly, note that in the context
of language modeling,
the sequence of actions and
states is called a rollout,
instead of the term playout that's used
in classic reinforcement learning.
The reward model is the central component
of the reinforcement learning process.
It encodes all of the preferences that
have been learned from human feedback, and
it plays a central role in how the model
updates its weights over many iterations.
In the next video, you'll see how this
model is trained and how you use it to
classify the model's outputs during
the reinforcement learning process.
Let's move on and take a look.